:date: 2019-01-13

=================================
How to pay authors for their work
=================================

Posted by Luc Saffre on Sunday, January 13, 2019.

Imagine that some countries would found a "Lutsu club" and fundamentally review
their laws according to the Lutsu manifesto. They would **refuse to protect
usage rights on intellectual property**. Citizens of those countries would have
the legal right to freely copy and reuse anything that has been published
anywhere in the world, including in countries who are not member of the Lutsu
club.

These countries would operate an international NGO whose mission would be to
manage the revenues on public commons.  Every member country would collect a
"public commons" tax from their citizens. Content producers in the Lutsu
countries would receive a part of this income.

Of course the NGO would also have quite some administrative costs for
distributing the income in a transparent and democratic way.  It would probably
set up different systems for measuring the "merits" of content providers.  For
example it might ask the individual citizens to "vote" for their favourite
content providers. It might employ experts of different areas who would
evaluate content.  All these costs would probably remain below the current
costs for enforcing copyrights.

Content producers located in non-member countries might try to protect their
"property". They might try to prevent "their" content from "leaking" into the
free countries by manipulating the Internet or by other means.  They might
declare war against the Lutsu club countries. But there's an easier solution:
they just a open branch office in some Luts country and apply for financial
contribution.  And they will receive a transparently and democratically
allocated contribution which will be theoretically equivalent to their
production costs.

All basic activities of content providers would continue as now, they would
just have to gradually adapt to the new commercial situation.

Above vision is based on the assumption that the member countries collect a
"public commons tax".  That might be the topic for some future blog post.


