===================
The Lutsu manifesto
===================

We, the signers of this manifesto, declare that we want a world where digitally
published content may be used and shared by everyone and no longer be
considered a "private property" for which the "owner" decides how it may be
used or not.  This includes publications formulated as text, picture, sound,
movie or source code, and ranging from simple postings in an Internet forum to
books, songs, movies, scientific reports, patents.

We **do not want to abolish copyright** as a whole.  We want to abolish a part
of it and enforce the other part.  Laws about what is commonly called
"copyright" are about two very different components:

- Some copyright laws give the author a *right to control* how others
  use his work.  We want to abolish these.

- On the other hand there are laws that protect the author's *right to
  get acknowledged* and honoured as the creator of their work.  We
  want to maintain and extend these.

We **want a fundamental change** in the way of how producers of digital content
are being rewarding. Publishing content should be considered an act of public
interest and rewarded as such.  The current copyright is rather a lottery than
a serious rewarding system. You *may* occasionally get famous and rich, but you
need a big portion of good luck and a good manager.

There are **several alternative ways** to reward authors and publishers. For
example they might be rewarded by a **public content tax** which should be
distributed using a transparent and democratic system under public control.

We are aware that the **transition won't be easy** because the change is
fundamental.  For example existing copyright holders must review their
established methods of generating income, governments must review their
laws,...

We believe **despite these challenges** that a transition is (a) possible and
(b) necessary.  We believe that this change is necessary because regulating the
use and sharing of digitally published content has become a Sisyphean task
causing absurd laws and requiring hordes of human resources in public
administrations.

**By signing this manifesto** we declare that we do our best to realize the
principal necessity of this fundamental change and to carefully develop
transition plans.  We ask any reader of this manifesto to join our movement in
order to start thinking together.

Author and maintainer of this document: Luc Saffre <luc.saffre@gmail.com>

Signatures
==========

Signed by: (nobody else yet)

Legal stuff
===========

Signing this manifesto does not have any legal commitment other than your
agreement to have your name and --at your choice-- additional information for
contacting and identifying you to be published in this repository. You may
revoke your signature at any moment, but the fact you once signed and later
revoked your signature will be visible forever. Changes to this document will
be done only if all signers agree.

History of this document is part of the public Git repository which currently
hosted at https://github.com/lsaffre/lutsu/commits/master/docs/manifesto.rst
You can sign by sending an email to the maintainer. We are open to suggestions
and eventually adapt the text accordingly.


